# *Percona Backup for MongoDB* 1.6.1 (2021-11-04)

| Release date | November 4, 2021  |
|------------- | ---------------|
| Installation | [Installing Percona Backup for MongoDB](../installation.md) |

Percona Backup for MongoDB is a distributed, low-impact solution for consistent backups of MongoDB
sharded clusters and replica sets. This is a tool for creating consistent backups
across a MongoDB sharded cluster (or a single replica set), and for restoring
those backups to a specific point in time.

## Release Highlights

* Deprecated support for MongoDB 3.6. Percona Backup for MongoDB remains compatible with MongoDB 3.6 and Percona Server for MongoDB 3.6; however, further enhancements and bug fixes are no longer tested against this version.

* Improved backup and PITR routines alignment by using sequential `delete-pitr`/`install-backup` operations instead of in-memory backup intent. This fixes the inability of a backup to start.

* Added support for automated access to S3 buckets using an EC2 instance profile. When Percona Backup for MongoDB is deployed using an EC2 instance, EC2 environment variables and metadata are used for S3 authentication, saving you from explicitly specifying S3 credentials in the Percona Backup for MongoDB configuration file. This comes handy for architectures deployed using the services like Amazon EC2, kiam, kube2iam or irsa.

* Extended logging for `pbm-agents`. This improves user experience with Percona Backup for MongoDB.

## Improvements

* [PBM-740](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PBM-740): Use AWS EC2 instance profile to simplify access to S3 buckets for PBM

## Bugs Fixed

* [PBM-714](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PBM-714): Fix backup and point-in-time recovery routines alignment algorithm to avoid backup failure

* [PBM-722](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PBM-722): Fix `pbm-agent`’s crash  during the  `delete-pitr` request execution if there is nothing to delete (Thanks to Daniel Oliver for reporting this issue)

* [PBM-735](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PBM-735): Fix a possible failure of a PITR catchup process to copy backup slices

* [PBM-712](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PBM-712): Fix an empty time value in JSON formatted log records by using Unix timestamps for time output
