# Percona Backup for MongoDB 2.9.0 ({{date.2_9_0}})

[Installation](../installation.md){.md-button}


Percona Backup for MongoDB is a distributed, low-impact solution for creating consistent backups of MongoDB sharded clusters and replica sets, and for restoring those backups to a specific point in time.

## Release Highlights

This release provides the following features and improvements:

### Amazon Linux 2023 support

Percona Backup for MongoDB is now available and fully supported on Amazon Linux 2023 (AL23), simplifying its AWS deployment. You can safely run PBM on AL23 to build a secure, stable, high-performance environment for developing and running cloud applications, with seamless integration with various AWS services and development tools. 

### Centralized management of `pbm-agent` setup

You can now define a `pbm-agent` configuration in a single file and start the agent using it. The configuration includes the MongoDB connection URI, the custom log path and the number of parallel workers for a backup. In addition, you can adjust the log level on runtime without having to restart the `pbm-agent`.

This helps you keep all your `pbm-agent` setup in a single place and simplifies its management. 

Learn more about how to [start pbm-agent using the configuration file](../manage/start-agent-with-config.md) as well as [all the ways to configure a custom log path](../manage/logpath.md)

### Improved security for Docker images

Percona Backup for MongoDB Docker image is now based on Universal Base Image (UBI) version 9, which includes the latest security fixes. This makes the image compliant with the Red Hat certification and ensures the seamless work of containers on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.


## Changelog


### New Features

* [PBM-1454](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PBM-1454) - Add the ability to define all pbm-agent's options via a configuration file

* [PBM-1466](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PBM-1466) - Remove kingpin dependency from PBM CLI

### Improvements

* [PBM-1452](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PBM-1452) - Stop the balancer and chunks autosplit automatically during restore

### Bugs Fixed

* [PBM-1465](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PBM-1465) - Fixed failing selective backup/restore for sharded collections in setups with config shards

* [PBM-1478](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PBM-1478) - Allow PBM operation on server with a single CPU by auto-adjusting the number of parallel collections to 1.

* [PBM-1479](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PBM-1479) - Fixed the issue with failing restores when there are collections partial indexes by  storing all index types in backup metadata (Thank you Nathan Neulinger for reporting this issue)

* [PBM-1485](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PBM-1485) - Fixed the issue with `pbm-agent` starts by fixing the typo in pbm-agent.init file



