.. _PBM-1.7.0:

================================================================================
*Percona Backup for MongoDB* 1.7.0
================================================================================

:Date: April 18, 2022
:Installation: `Installing Percona Backup for MongoDB <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-backup-mongodb/installation.html>`_

Percona Backup for MongoDB is a distributed, low-impact solution for consistent backups of MongoDB
sharded clusters and replica sets. This is a tool for creating consistent backups
across a MongoDB sharded cluster (or a single replica set), and for restoring
those backups to a specific point in time. 
 
.. important:: 

   To make :ref:`physical backups <backup-types>` and restores (technical preview feature), the ``pbm-agent`` must have the read / write access to the ``dataDir``. If you use the filesystem-based backup storage, the ``pbm-agent`` must also have the read / write access to the backup directory. Therefore, starting from version 1.7.0, the user running the ``pbm-agent`` is changed from ``pbm`` to ``mongod`` in |PBM| packages.

   To upgrade |PBM| to version 1.7.0, do the following:

   1.	Stop the ``pbm-agent`` process
   2.	:ref:`Upgrade <pbm.upgrade>` new version packages
   3.	Reload the ``systemd`` process to update the unit file with the following command: 
     	
     	.. code-block:: bash

     	   $ sudo  systemctl daemon-reload

   5.	If you have a filesystem-based backup storage, grant read / write permissions to the backup directory to the ``mongod`` user.
   6.	Restart the ``pbm-agent`` process.

   If MongoDB runs under a *different user than mongod* (the default configuration for |PSMDB|), use the same user to run the ``pbm-agent``. For filesystem-based storage, grant the read / write permissions to the backup directory for this user.

Release highlights
======================

* Support for :ref:`physical backups <backup-types>` in |PSMDB| starting from versions 4.2.15-16 and 4.4.6-8 and higher. Physical backups drastically speed up backup and restore performance for large databases (several terabytes). This is a technical preview feature [1]_. 
* :ref:`Oplog replay <oplog-replay>` from the arbitrary start time. This reduces Recovery Point Objective (RPO) when database is recovered from physical or storage-level backups.
* Ability to configure compression method and level for |PITR| chunks and compression level for backups.
* Ability to configure the number of S3 multipart upload chunks to comply with various S3-compatible storage provider requirements. 
* Ability to configure the number of upload retries. This facilitates data upload in case of unstable network connection.
 

New Features
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PBM-734`: Add the config option to set :ref:`debug log levels <s3-debug-log-levels>` for S3  requests
* :jirabug:`PBM-805`: Implement physical backups to improve performance for large databases
* :jirabug:`PBM-742`: Add the ability to :ref:`replay oplog <oplog-replay>` from arbitrary start time. This reduces Recovery Point Objective (RPO) when database is recovered from physical backups.




Improvements
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PBM-680`: :ref:`Skip TLS verification <s3-skip-TLS>` for object storage. This can be useful for private object storage with self-signed certificates.
* :jirabug:`PBM-770`: Support configurable compression :ref:`method <pitr-compression>` / :ref:`level <pitr-compression-level>` for |PITR| chunks (Thanks to Damiano Albani for reporting this issue and contributing to it)
* :jirabug:`PBM-764`: Support Zstandard compression format (Thanks to Damiano Albani for reporting this issue and contributing to it)
* :jirabug:`PBM-750`: Make max number of S3 upload parts configurable (Thanks to Damiano Albani for reporting this issue and contributing to it)
* :jirabug:`PBM-777`: Expand / fix the configuration API to support compression method for |PITR| chunks (Thanks to Damiano Albani for reporting and contributing to this issue)
* :jirabug:`PBM-756`: Add the ability to configure :ref:`logging levels for S3 requests <s3-debug-log-levels>` to debug issues with object storage (Thanks to Damiano Albani for reporting this issue and contributing to it)
* :jirabug:`PBM-577`: It is now possible to choose an :ref:`S3 storage class <s3-storage-class>` for granular control over various S3 tiers (Thanks to Damiano Albani for the contribution)



Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PBM-721`: Fixed a bug where an upload of the backup to S3-storage was failing due to unstable network connection. |PBM| can now be configured to retry the upload with flexible timeouts.
* :jirabug:`PBM-773`: Check distributed transactions on all participating shards to avoid commit timestamp inconsistency upon restore



.. include:: ../.res/replace.txt

.. [1] Tech Preview Features are not yet ready for enterprise use and are not included in support via |SLA|. They are included in this release so that users can provide feedback prior to the full release of the feature in a future |GA| release (or removal of the feature if it is deemed not useful). This functionality can change (APIs, CLIs, etc.) from tech preview to GA.
         